Learning Docker [Day 5] 🚀

✅ Let's learn about the Dockerfile

What is Dockerfile?

Dockerfile is a simple text file that consists of instructions to build Docker images.

Before we create our first Dockerfile, it is important to understand what makes up the file.

Dockerfile consists of specific commands that guide you on how to build a specific Docker image.

This topic covers recommended best practices and methods for building efficient images.

Docker builds images automatically by reading the instructions from a Dockerfile -- a text file that contains all commands, in order, needed to build a given image. A Dockerfile adheres to a specific format and set of instructions which you can find in the Dockerfile reference.

✅ The specific commands you can use in a Dockerfile are:

Each instruction creates one layer:

FROM - creates a layer from the ubuntu:18.04 Docker image
COPY - adds files from your Docker client’s current directory
RUN - builds your application with make
CMD - specifies what command to run within the container
PULL - Adds files from your Docker repository
ENV - provides default values for variables that can be accessed within the container
ADD - If you want to extract a TAR file inside a Docker Container or copy files from a URL or local directory
MAINTAINER - declares the author field of the images

✅ Example: DOCKERFILE_1 CREATING TEST IMAGE

FROM ubuntu 
RUN echo "Hi Akash" > /tmp/testfile
RUN apt-get update -y
RUN apt-get install –y nginx
RUN apt-get install tree -y

➡ Command: docker build -t (new_image)
ex. test
➡ Verify test image create or not using the command: docker images
➡ Creating testcontainer using a test image: docker run -it --name testcontainer test /bin/bash
➡ Verify whether the testcontainer created or not using the command: docker ps -a
➡ Verify what instruction I am giving in Dockerfile to create an image and created a new container using that image ex. test
all instruction working or not.

✅ Example: DOCKERFILE_2

FROM ubuntu
WORKDIR /tmp
MAINTAINER aakashkale112@gmail.com
ENV myname akash
RUN echo "Hi Akash" > /tmp/testfile
COPY testfile1 /tmp
ADD test.tar.gz /tmp

✅ Example: DOCKERFILE_3 FOR EXPOSE INSTRUCTION

FROM ubuntu:latest
EXPOSE 80/tcp
EXPOSE 80/udp

➡ sudo docker build -t expose-demo
➡ sudo docker run -it an expose-demo bash
➡ sudo docker image inspect --format='' expose-demo 
➡ sudo docker run -P -d expose-demo
➡ sudo docker start
➡ sudo docker container ls

Note: All Dockerfile instructions are not covered in this post. Follow the given link for a better understanding of Dockerfile instructions: https://lnkd.in/dVSuS5zS

